doc(operator and crds scope) : Improvements with the purpose to make the understanding easier (#1936)
operator-framework/operator-sdk: doc/operator-scope.md

  - [When a operator cluster-scoped should be used?](#when-a-operator-cluster-scoped-should-be-used)
  - [Changes required in the scaffold for cluster scoped operator](#changes-required-in-the-scaffold-for-cluster-scoped-operator)
  - [Example for cluster scoped operator](#example-for-cluster-scoped-operator)
- [CRD scope](#crd-scope)
  - [When CRD cluster-scoped should be used?](#when-crd-cluster-scoped-should-be-used)
  - [Example for change the CRD scope from namespace to cluster](#example-for-change-the-crd-scope-from-namespace-to-cluster)

A namespace-scoped operator watches and manages resources in a single namespace, whereas a cluster-scoped operator watches and manages resources cluster-wide. Namespace-scoped operators are preferred because of their flexibility. They enable decoupled upgrades, namespace isolation for failures and monitoring, and differing API definitions.

However, there are use cases where a cluster-scoped operator may make sense. For example, the [cert-manager](https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager) operator is often deployed with cluster-scoped permissions and watches so that it can manage issuing certificates for an entire cluster.

> #### When a operator namespaced-scoped should be used?

Author: ```suggestion
#### When an operator namespaced-scoped should be used?
```

> #### When a operator namespaced-scoped should be used?

Reviewer: s/operator namespaced-scoped/namespace-scoped operator/

> #### When an operator namespaced-scoped should be used?

Reviewer: If you remove the ?, this (and line 22) will be fine. If you prefer to leave the ?, it should be:

"When should a namespace-scoped operator be used?"

> #### When an operator namespaced-scoped should be used?

Author: ```suggestion
#### When should a namespace-scoped operator be used?
```

> #### When an operator namespaced-scoped should be used?

Author: ```suggestion
#### When should a namespace-scoped operator be used?
```

> If the operator will controller resources just in ONE namespace, which is where the operator is deployed then it is ideal case for a namespace-scoped one. 

Reviewer: s/controller/control/

> If the operator will controller resources just in ONE namespace, which is where the operator is deployed then it is ideal case for a namespace-scoped one. 

Author: ```suggestion
If the operator will control resources just in ONE namespace, which is where the operator is deployed then it is an ideal case for a namespace-scoped one. 
```

> **NOTE**: It is the default configuration for the initial projects created by operator-sdk which means that it will NOT have a `Cluster Role` defined in the `deploy/role_binding.yaml`.  

> #### When a operator cluster-scoped should be used?

Reviewer: s/operator cluster-scoped/cluster-scoped operator/

> #### When a operator cluster-scoped should be used?

Author: ```suggestion
#### When a cluster-scoped operator should be used?
```

- [Cluster-scoped operator usage](#cluster-scoped-operator-usage)
  - [Changes required in the scaffold project for the cluster-scoped operator](#changes-required-in-the-scaffold-project-for-the-cluster-scoped-operator)
  - [Example for cluster scoped operator](#example-for-cluster-scoped-operator)
- [CRD scope](#crd-scope)
  - [CRD cluster-scoped usage](#crd-cluster-scoped-usage)
  - [Example for change the CRD scope from namespace to cluster](#example-for-change-the-crd-scope-from-namespace-to-cluster)

## Overview

A namespace-scoped operator watches and manages resources in a single namespace, whereas a cluster-scoped operator watches and manages resources cluster-wide. Namespace-scoped operators are preferred because of their flexibility. They enable decoupled upgrades, namespace isolation for failures and monitoring, and differing API definitions.

However, there are use cases where a cluster-scoped operator may make sense. For example, the [cert-manager](https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager) operator is often deployed with cluster-scoped permissions and watches so that it can manage issuing certificates for an entire cluster.

## Namespace-scoped operator usage

> This scope is ideal for operators projects which will control resources just in one namespace, which is where the operator is deployed.

Author: ```suggestion
This scope is ideal for operator projects which will control resources just in one namespace, which is where the operator is deployed.
```

> > **NOTE**: It is the default configuration for the initial projects created by operator-sdk which means that it will NOT have a `Cluster Role` defined in the `deploy/role_binding.yaml`.  

Author: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** Initial projects created by `operator-sdk` are namespace-scoped by default which means that it will NOT have a ClusterRole defined in the deploy/role_binding.yaml"
```

## Cluster-scoped operator usage

> This scope is ideal for operators projects which will control resources in more than one namespace.

Author: ```suggestion
This scope is ideal for operator projects which will control resources in more than one namespace.
```

> ### Changes required in the scaffold project for the cluster-scoped operator

Author: ```suggestion
### Changed required for a cluster-scoped operator
```

  * Use `ClusterRole` instead of `Role` for `roleRef`
  * Set the subject namespace to the namespace in which the operator is deployed.

> ### Example for cluster scoped operator

Author: ```suggestion
### Example for cluster-scoped operator
```

> **NOTE**: Cluster-scoped CRDs are **NOT** supported with the Helm operator. While Helm releases can create cluster-scoped resources, Helm's design requires the release itself to be created in a specific namespace. Since the Helm operator uses a 1-to-1 mapping between a CR and a Helm release, Helm's namespace-scoped release requirement extends to Helm operator's namespace-scoped CR requirement.

For each CRD that needs to be cluster-scoped, update its manifest to be cluster-scoped.

* `deploy/crds/<full group>_<resource>_crd.yaml`
  * Set `spec.scope: Cluster`

To ensure that the CRD is always generated with `scope: Cluster`, add the tag `// +kubebuilder:resource:path=<resource>,scope=Cluster`, or if already present replace `scope={Namespaced -> Cluster}`, above the CRD's Go type definition in `pkg/apis/<group>/<version>/<kind>_types.go`. Note that the `<resource>` element must be the same lower-case plural value of the CRD's Kind, `spec.names.plural`. 

### CRD cluster-scoped usage 

> It is ideal for the cases where an instance(CR) of some Kind(CRD) will be used in more than one namespace instead of an specific one. 

Reviewer 2: I would change "It is" to "This scope" to make it more clear what "it" really is. :) 

typo: "an specific one" -> "a specific one"

> It is ideal for the cases where an instance(CR) of some Kind(CRD) will be used in more than one namespace instead of an specific one. 

Author: ```suggestion
This scope is ideal for the cases where an instance(CR) of some Kind(CRD) will be used in more than one namespace instead of a specific one. 
```

> > **NOTE**: When an instance of the Manager is created in the `main.go` file it receives as Options the namespace(s) which should be watched and cached for the Client which is provided by it in the Controllers. So, only clients provided by cluster-scoped project where the `Namespace` attribute is equals `""` will able to manager cluster-scoped CRD's. For further information see the [Manager][manager_user_guide] topic in the user guide and the [Manager Options][manager_options].  

Reviewer 2: This note is not entirely clear to me. Try rephrasing it as follows:

When a `Manager` instance is created in the `main.go` file, it receives the namespace(s) as `Options`. These namespace(s) should be watched and cached for the Client which is provided by the Controllers. Only clients provided by cluster-scoped projects where the `Namespace` attribute is `""` will be able to manage cluster-scoped CRD's. For more information see the [Manager][manager_user_guide] topic in the user guide and the [Manager Options][manager_options].

> > **NOTE**: When an instance of the Manager is created in the `main.go` file it receives as Options the namespace(s) which should be watched and cached for the Client which is provided by it in the Controllers. So, only clients provided by cluster-scoped project where the `Namespace` attribute is equals `""` will able to manager cluster-scoped CRD's. For further information see the [Manager][manager_user_guide] topic in the user guide and the [Manager Options][manager_options].  

Author: ```suggestion
> **NOTE**: When a `Manager` instance is created in the `main.go` file, it receives the namespace(s) as Options. These namespace(s) should be watched and cached for the Client which is provided by the Controllers. Only clients provided by cluster-scoped projects where the `Namespace` attribute is `""` will be able to manage cluster-scoped CRD's. For more information see the [Manager][manager_user_guide] topic in the user guide and the [Manager Options][manager_options].
```

> ### Example for change the CRD scope from namespace to cluster 

Author: ```suggestion
### Example for changing the CRD scope from namespace to cluster 
```

> ### Example for change the CRD scope from namespace to cluster 

Reviewer 2: typo: change -> changing

> - Check the `spec.names.plural` in the  CRD's Kind YMAL file

Author: ```suggestion
- Check the `spec.names.plural` in the  CRD's Kind YAML file
```

> - Check the `spec.names.plural` in the  CRD's Kind YMAL file

Reviewer 2: typo: YMAL -> YAML

      Spec   MemcachedSpec   `json:"spec,omitempty"`
      Status MemcachedStatus `json:"status,omitempty"`
    }
    ``` 

> - Execute the command `operator-sdk generate openapi` then you should be able to check the CRD updated with the cluster scope such as the following example. 

Reviewer 2: add a comma `,` after the command before the "then":
"Execute the command `operator-sdk generate openapi`, then"

rephrase: you should be able to check that the CRD was updated with the cluster scope as in the following example:

> - Execute the command `operator-sdk generate openapi` then you should be able to check the CRD updated with the cluster scope such as the following example. 

Author: ```suggestion
- Execute the command `operator-sdk generate openapi`, then ensure that the CRD was updated with the cluster scope. Following an example. 
```
